---
layout: single
title: "Chatbots (2023-03-11)"
categories: [paper]
tag: [User Engagement, Reward Model, A/B Testing, Natural Language Processing, Deep Learning]
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: Contents
---

# Rewarding Chatbots for Real-World Engagement with Millions of Users
arxiv, [huggingface](https://huggingface.co/ChaiML)
- This paper investigates the development of social chatbots that prioritize user engagement to enhance retention.
- The proposed approach uses human feedback and automatic pseudo-labels to train a reward model that can reject low-scoring sample responses generated by the chatbot model.
- The paper introduces intuitive evaluation metrics, such as mean conversation length, and reports A/B testing results that show an up to 70% increase in mean conversation length and more than 30% increase in user retention for a GPT-J 6B model.
- The paper also discusses future work aimed at using the reward model to fine-tune both the language model and the reward model.

1️⃣ The underlying assumption of this paper is that social chatbots that prioritize user engagement can enhance user retention, and that automatic pseudo-labels collected from user interactions can be used to train a reward model to efficiently develop highly engaging chatbots.

2️⃣ The methodology used in this paper involves using automatic pseudo-labels collected from user interactions to train a reward model, which is then used to reject low-scoring sample responses generated by the chatbot model at inference time. The authors introduce intuitive evaluation metrics, such as mean conversation length (MCL), to measure the level of engagement of deployed chatbots. A/B testing is conducted on groups of 10,000 new daily chatbot users on the Chai Research platform to evaluate the effectiveness of this approach.

3️⃣ The implications of this research are that using a reward model to prioritize user engagement can lead to increased user retention for social chatbots. This could have significant applications in areas such as customer service, where chatbots are often used to handle customer inquiries.